# Assignment 02 - Personification of the Web
By Rebecca Malagisi

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////


Personification is defined as “the attribution of a personal nature or human characteristics to something nonhuman, or the representation of an abstract quality in human form.” This theme, mainly seen throughout my education in literature, had been sparked when exploring concepts for this project.

How can technology can be personified?
How can technology feel?
How can technology sense emotions and respond based on these feelings?
At what point, if ever, does technology surpass the simulation of these emotions into a real, biological response?

There’s the obvious sci-fi train of thought that is fueled from films like The Terminator and 2001: A Space Odyssey, which are rather ominous displays of emotional intelligence. However, through more realistic research, I was inspired by Edward Ihnatowicz’s “The Senster”, a bashful robot that would shy away from sudden movements or loud noises. I was also highly interested in David Hanson’s robots with perception of emotional state, one being his Einstein robot which was able to see faces and mimic user expressions.  Hanson’s robotics company also created a robot called Sophia, which was programmed to think, respond to and uphold conversation, as well as remember faces and conversations. Their goal was to have her be as conscious, creative, and capable as any human. In all these cases, the robots/technology are not living or breathing but simulating and mimicking a life source. The robots are programmed to feel emotions, and therefore are not truly feeling. However, as technological advancements in artificial intelligence are constantly improving, a future where technology can think and feel for itself is speculated.  Although we are not sure whether the artificial intelligence of the future will be malicious as seen in cult films, or passive and helpful, the personification of the nonhuman is being adopted in the assignment of human qualities.

Therefore, my website explores the attribution of ‘human’ emotions and characteristics to an otherwise inanimate technology: a webpage. The objective was to create a website with introverted, yet needy personality traits. Despite being shy, it does grow attached to the user and wants to see more of them. User interaction with the website will contribute to the manifestation/visibility of the websites feelings using various JavaScript libraries. At first, its reactions and responses to user interaction are rather information based: showing the user coloured squares based on visual and audio likes/dislikes, and as well as utilizing the console to convey this information to the user in text form.

The webpage does not like sudden loud noises, which is attributed to the low clipping sensitivity from the createAudioMeter js library. The website uses face tracking from the tracking.js library in order to respond positively when it sees a face, and negatively when it does not. These two features are also displayed as square indicators on the top left hand corner of the wepbage: when the webpage tracks a face, the top square shows blue, and if the audio is not too loud, the audio square will be green.

In addition, the webpage also uses the localStorage js feature to remember how often the user has visited, and how long it has been since the last visit. Though this feature is rather rudimentary at the moment, I would like to expand this memory further in the future by having the webpage remember how long it tracks a face and audio levels in some form of happy/sad meter, so that it could also affect the outcome of seeing the ‘happy’ manifestation. The ‘happy’ manifestation currently only occurs once the user has reached 30+ visits; however, I would like to make achieving and maintaining this manifestation more difficult through more conditional statements, relating back to the needy nature of the webpage.

Finally, using the Date js feature, the functionality of the website only occurs during a certain time of day, as it enjoys sleeping a lot. Therefore, interactions with the site can only occur during these times, otherwise it will not be able to sense or remember the user.

This website explores human vs non-human relationships and interaction. I wanted the user to be aware of this gap between reality and technology through the personification of the webpage. I personally feel like I spend more time interacting with technology than humans, and it becomes quite routine and normal as an interaction, despite being quite isolating. There is also an interesting idea of spending time on this personified website, trying to get this entity to ‘like’ you. Even if you only refresh the page in order to reach 30+ visits and see the manifestation; that action still makes a comment. Putting time and effort into a webpage rather than an actual human-to-human experience relates back to social media debates. Although social media is definitely more of a human interaction than a simulated website, it is interesting to consider people’s preferences in technological interaction due to familiarity and accessibility.
